v5.2.1 (#3450)
mui-org/material-ui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.2.1

_Dec 17, 2021_

A big thanks to the 8 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🖨 Print export has a cleaner breaking page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🖨️ Improve the print export to break the pages correctly
```

> - 🧑‍💻 Add `pinnable` option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🎁 Add `pinnable` option to `GridColDef`
```

- 📚 Documentation improvements
- 🐞 Bugfixes

> ### Changes

Reviewer: The line with the package version is missing. BTW, in #3312 I inverted by putting the package before the highlights. In #3385 the same mistake was repeated.

```suggestion
### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.2.1` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.2.1`

#### Changes
```

- [DataGridPro] Add `pinnable` option (#3425) @m4theushw
- [DataGridPro] Avoid filtering columns if no column is pinned (#3438) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Avoid page break inside a row in the Print Export (#3302) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix `GridEditDateCell` to handle `editRowsModel` correctly (#3267) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Refactor keyboard/click event management (#3275) @alexfauquette

> - [DataGrid] Fire change event when the state changes, not when firing the prop change callback in control mode (#3388) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fire change event when the state changes, instead of when the prop changes (#3388) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGrid] Unsubscribe event listeners registered in uncommitted renders (#3310) @m4theushw

### Core

- [core] Rework state update methods and deprecate `useGridApi` + `useGridState` (#3325) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Add sections to some of the feature hooks (#3391) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Generate exports snapshot for both `x-data-grid` and `x-data-grid-pro` packages (#3427) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Remove 'x-data-grid' folder from DataGridPro bundle (#3394) @m4theushw
- [core] Add link to OpenCollective (#3392) @oliviertassinari

### Docs

- [docs] Improve pagination documentation page (#3424) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Include @mui/x-data-grid as dependency in the CodeSandbox (#3396) @m4theushw

> - [docs] Stop using typedoc to generate the API documentation (#3320) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [docs] Stop using TypeDoc to generate the API documentation (#3320) @flaviendelangle
```

- [docs] Remove column pinning from "Upcoming features" (#3443) @alexfauquette

### Translation

> A big thanks to @sebastianfrey, @ColdAtNight and @jaapjr for improving the translation

Reviewer: The PRs with contributions to the translations should be listed inside "Changes".

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.2.1

_Dec 17, 2021_

A big thanks to the 8 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🖨️ Improve the print export to break the pages correctly
- 🎁 Add `pinnable` option to `GridColDef`

> - 📚 Documentation improvements

Reviewer: The PR number and author should be mentioned.

- 🐞 Bugfixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.2.1` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.2.1`

#### Changes

- [DataGridPro] Add `pinnable` option (#3425) @m4theushw
- [DataGridPro] Avoid filtering columns if no column is pinned (#3438) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Avoid page break inside a row in the Print Export (#3302) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix `GridEditDateCell` to handle `editRowsModel` correctly (#3267) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Refactor keyboard/click event management (#3275) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Fire change event when the state changes, instead of when the prop changes (#3388) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Unsubscribe event listeners registered in uncommitted renders (#3310) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] Improve German (de_DE) locale (#3430) @sebastianfrey
> - [DataGrid] Improve Hebrew (he-IL) locale (#3445) @ColdAtNight
> - [DataGrid] Improve Dutch (nl-NL) locale (#3429) @jaapjr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [l10n] Improve German (deDE) locale (#3430) @sebastianfrey
- [l10n] Improve Hebrew (heIL) locale (#3445) @ColdAtNight
- [l10n] Improve Dutch (nlNL) locale (#3429) @jaapjr
```

Author: Are you sure? In previous changelog, translation was with [DataGrid] tag

Reviewer: I changed their tags to be "[DataGrid]" in the CHANGELOG, but the PR is "[l10n]", which is the same approach taken by the core.

### Core

> - [core] Rework state update methods and deprecate `useGridApi` + `useGridState` (#3325) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [core] Rework state update methods and deprecate `useGridApi` and `useGridState` (#3325) @flaviendelangle
```

- 🙈 Add a new option to hide the amount of descendant on the grouping cells of the Tree Data (#3368) @flaviendelangle

  ```tsx

>   <DataGridPro treeData rows={rows} columns={columns} groupingColDef={{ hideDescendantCount }} />

Reviewer: Could this be reverted? One prop per line seems easier to read.

Author: Yes, sorry, I struggle to manage my prettier on this file

- [core] Remove outdated hooks requirements (#2939) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Remove test event (#2912) @m4theushw
- [core] Remove unused `GridSlotComponentProps` interface (#2911) @flaviendelangle

> - [core] Rename 'UNSTABLE*' prefix to 'unstable*' (#2931) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: `*something*` is formatted as italic.

```suggestion
- [core] Rename 'UNSTABLE_' prefix to 'unstable_' (#2931) @flaviendelangle
```
